.Dd December 10, 2016
.Dt cbsd-jls 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cbsd jls
.Nd List jails on local node or other added nodes of the farm.

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm Cm
.Op Cm alljails Ns = Ns Ar 1
.Op Cm shownode Ns = Ns Ar 1
.Op Cm node Ns = Ns Ar <node-name>
.Op Cm header Ns = Ns Ar 0
.Op Cm display Ns = Ns Ar jid,jname,ip4_addr,host_hostname,path,status ...
.Op Fl Fl help

.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command lists all jails on the local node or other nodes added to the farm.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm alljails Ns = Ns Ar 1
List jails from the whole farm (from all registered nodes).
.It Cm shownode Ns = Ns Ar 1
When used with alljails option, lists the node name on which the jail resides.
.It Cm node Ns = Ns Ar <node-name>
Lists jails only from one particular node specified via node-name argument.
.It Cm header Ns = Ns Ar 0
Omits header display, when listing nodes.
.It Cm display Ns = Ns Ar jid,jname,ip4_addr,host_hostname,path,status
The outputed fields can be changed through the display option.
.It Fl Fl help
Show simple usage instructions.
.El
.Ss Display options
The
.Cm display
option gives the user high flexibility for querying different
information about the node or the whole farm and
displaying it in a tabular form.
.Pp
When there are no arguments specified, defaults are taken from
$workdir/etc/defaults/jls.conf. These can be modified by changing the
$workdir/etc/jls.conf file leaving the default file intact. All the possible
options can be found in the /usr/local/cbsd/share/jail-arg file.
.Pp
Some of the most important options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm jid
Jail ID
.It Cm jname
Jail name
.It Cm ipv4_addr
List of assigned IP addresses (IPv4, IPv6)
.It Cm host_hostname
FQDN (fully qualified domain name) of the jail
.It Cm path
Root path for jail.
.It Cm status
On (running), Off (stoped), Unregister (jail has its rc.conf (old format),
but is not in the SQL database). Jail in the Unregister status may be insert
to the SQL database via: cbsd jregister. Unregistered jails are also
automatically converted in Upgrading stage of cbsd initenv command.
.It Cm astart
Start jail automatically at system boot.
.It Cm ver
Jail base source version.
.It Cm arch
Architecture of the jail.
.It Cm cpuset
The cpuset can be used to assign processor sets to jails, running
jails are then constrained to a given set or list of processors.
.It Cm b_order
Set the boot order for the auto started (astart option) jails for example if
you have jails dependencies.
.El
.Pp
If you get fields with dashes, while listing jails running on multiple nodes,
this could mean that the remote node is running an older version of CBSD.
Respectively, the SQL query does not find relevant records in the remote database.

.Sh ENVIRONMENT
By default, CBSD displays text in color (using escape sequences ANSII).
If for some reason the color is unpleasant, or you want to use output from
CBSD utilities in your scripts, you can disable the color through the
environment variable NOCOLOR=1. For example:

.Dl % env NOCOLOR Ns = Ns Ar 1 Nm

.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It /usr/local/cbsd/share/jail-arg
Contains all header fields for the display option.
.It $workdir/etc/defaults/jls.conf
Default location for the selected display options.
.It $workdir/etc/jls.conf
Overriding the defaults in former.
.El

.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std

.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag
.It List all jails on a single node:
.Bd -literal
.Nm Cm
JNAME      JID  IP4_ADDR                             HOST_HOSTNAME                 PATH                        STATUS
jail1      0    10.0.0.2/16                          jail1.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail1      Off
jail2      0    10.0.0.3/16                          jail2.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail2      Off
jail3      1    10.0.0.4/16                          jail3.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail3      On
.Ed

.It List all jails on a the whole farm:
.Bd -literal
.Nm Cm alljails Ns = Ns Ar 1
JNAME      JID  IP4_ADDR                             HOST_HOSTNAME                 PATH                        STATUS
jail1      0    10.0.0.2/16                          jail1.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail1      Off
jail2      0    10.0.0.3/16                          jail2.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail2      Off
jail3      1    10.0.0.4/16                          jail3.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail3      On
jail4      0    10.0.1.2/16                          jail4.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail1      Off
jail5      0    10.0.1.3/16                          jail5.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail2      Off
jail6      1    10.0.1.4/16                          jail6.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail3      On
.Ed

.It List all jails on the farm with node names shown:
.Bd -literal
.Nm Cm alljails Ns = Ns Ar 1 Cm shownode Ns = Ns Ar 1
NODENAME            JNAME      JID  IP4_ADDR                             HOST_HOSTNAME                 PATH                        STATUS
master              jail1      0    10.0.0.2/16                          jail1.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail1      Off
master              jail2      0    10.0.0.3/16                          jail2.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail2      Off
master              jail3      1    10.0.0.4/16                          jail3.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail3      On
slave               jail4      0    10.0.1.2/16                          jail4.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail4      Off
slave               jail5      0    10.0.1.3/16                          jail5.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail5      Off
slave               jail6      1    10.0.1.4/16                          jail6.my.domain               /usr/jails/jails/jail6      On
.Ed
.El

.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
To enable debugging via sh xtrace and trace all operations, use --debug
argument after the CBSD command, for example:

.Dl	% env NOCOLOR=1 Nm Fl Fl debug

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cbsd-jconfig 8
.Xr cbsd-jregister 8
.Xr cbsd-jset 8

.Sh AUTHORS
.An Oleg Ginzburg Aq Mt olevole@olevole.ru
