.Dd December 10, 2016
.Dt cbsd-jconstruct-tui 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cbsd jconstruct-tui
.Nd Ncurses based jail creation wizard.

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm Cm
.Op Cm mode Ns = Ns Ar full
.Op Fl Fl help

.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command uses dialog-based interface to create jail configuration used to create
a new jail. There are other ways to create this configuration. Using shell-based
question/answer utility jconstruct or using the web interface.
.Pp
Command line option:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm mode Ns = Ns Ar full
Display all possible options, including the path selection for jail storage, etc.
.El

.Pp
Dialog menu options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm profile
Jail profile to use, this allows some defaults to be set from the profile.
.It Cm pkglist
Provide package list for the new jail.
.It Cm jname
Short jail name.
.It Cm host_hostname
FQDN for the jail environment.
.It Cm ip4_addr
IP addresses (separated by commas if more than one) or 0 for vnet/bhyve environments.
.It Cm ver
FreeBSD version for the base.
.It Cm baserw
Mount copy of base via nullfs in read only (baserw=no) or populate own copy (baserw=yes) with write access.
.It Cm mount_ports
Mount /usr/ports dir from base system to jail (read only).
.It Cm astart
Start jail automatically on the system boot.
.It Cm interface
Specify uplink for jail (on which interface to create/remove IP) or disable network.
.It Cm applytpl
Automatically adjust the same settings of the jail (create /etc/hosts, change WRKDIRPREFIX, etc..).
.It Cm floatresolv
Automatically adjust /etc/resolv.conf from jnameserver IP (settings from initenv/initenv-tui)
.It Cm arch
Specify architecture of jail environment.
.It Cm zfs_snapsrc
Use this ZFS snapshot as source for jail data (eg. zmirror/jails/jail1@init).
.It Cm user_pw_root
Change jail root password.
.It Cm add_user
Create additional user account in jail.
.It Cm services
Toggle additional startup services.
.It Cm pkg_bootstrap
Toggle pkg bootstrap.
.It Fl Fl help
Show simple usage instructions.
.El
.Pp
Dialog menu options with mode=full:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm path
path to jail mountpoint
.It Cm basename
alternative base name
.It Cm data
alternative path to data directory
.El
.Pp
Some notes about packages selected using
.Nm
.Pp
When pkg.conf and repository are configured properly it is possible to select
packages to be installed right after jail creation using the pkglist menu item.
For security reasons it is recommended to use either official FreeBSD pkg repo,
or build your own packages. If the repository is unavailable the pkglist will not
show any results. Multi-repo support and the ability to choose a specific
repository is missing at the time. Please remember that packages chosen using
.Nm
are from the host and will work in the jail only if the architecture and the FreeBSD
version of the jail are the same as of the host machine.
.Pp
After you have configured all the options, after hitting "GO Proceed" you will be
asked one final question, if you would like to create jail right away or save the
configuration for later jail creation. The later can be done by running
.Bd -literal
% cbsd jcreate jconf=path_to_cfg
.Ed
The configuration files are by default saved in
$workir/ftmp.
.Pp
Important security implication: Make it a rule to always change the root password
in newly created jails or in jails obtained from a repository. If the jail is created
with "applytpl=0" the files /etc/{passwd,master.passwd,group} will be the same as
original "clean" files from FreeBSD installation, leaving the root password empty.
If the jail is created with "applytpl=1" $workdir/share/jail-skel files will be used
as skel files. Here the default password is 'cbsd'. You can change default root
password when new jail is created by editing the hash in jail-skel master.passwd:
.Bd -literal
% vipw -d ${workdir}/share/jail-skel/etc
.Ed

.Sh ENVIRONMENT
By default, CBSD displays text in color (using escape sequences ANSII).
If for some reason the color is unpleasant, or you want to use output from
CBSD utilities in your scripts, you can disable the color through the
environment variable NOCOLOR=1. For example:

.Dl % env NOCOLOR=1 Nm

.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It $workdir/ftmp
Place where generated jail configurations are stored.
.It ${workdir}/share/jail-skel/etc
Here are all the files that will be copied over after jail creation.
.El

.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std

.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
To enable debugging via sh xtrace and trace all operations, use --debug
argument after the CBSD command, for example:

.Dl	% env NOCOLOR=1 Nm Fl Fl debug

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cbsd-jconstruct 8
.Xr cbsd-jcreate 8
.Xr dialog 1

.Sh AUTHORS
.An Oleg Ginzburg Aq Mt olevole@olevole.ru
