.Dd December 10, 2016
.Dt cbsd-jdescr 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cbsd jdescr
.Nd Jail description and notes.

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm Cm
.Op Cm mode Ns = Ns Ar update
.Op Cm jname Ns = Ns Ar <jail-name>
.Op Cm editor Ns = Ns Ar <editor>
.Op Fl Fl help

.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command can display and store jail description or summary. It is possible
to store all kinds of information about the jail especially as the collection
of jails grows.
.Nm
without options displays description of all local jails.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm jname Ns = Ns Ar <jail-name> Cm mode Ns = Ns Ar update
Update information about <jail-name>.
.It Cm editor Ns = Ns Ar <editor>
Use a different editor.
.It Fl Fl help
Show simple usage instructions.
.El
.Pp
Descriptions for each jail are stored in a text file residing at
$workdir/jails-system/$jname/descr, where jname is the name of the jail.
When moving or copying a jail with jcoldmigrate, jclone, jimport/export,
the description will be preserved.

.Sh ENVIRONMENT
By default, CBSD displays text in color (using escape sequences ANSII).
If for some reason the color is unpleasant, or you want to use output from
CBSD utilities in your scripts, you can disable the color through the
environment variable NOCOLOR=1. For example:

.Dl % env NOCOLOR=1 Nm

.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It $workdir/jails-system/$jname/descr
Place where jail descriptions are stored.
.El

.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std

.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag
.It List all local jail descriptions:
.Bd -literal
.Nm Cm
jail1 {
This is some description for Jail1.
}
.Ed

.It Update information about jail using the default editor:
.Bd -literal
.Nm Cm jname Ns = Ns Ar jail1 Cm mode Ns = Ns Ar update
Jail1

This Jail is used to test things.
Created on: 20161129
.Ed
.El

.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
To enable debugging via sh xtrace and trace all operations, use --debug
argument after the CBSD command, for example:

.Dl	% env NOCOLOR=1 Nm Fl Fl debug

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cbsd-jconfig 8
.Xr cbsd-jset 8

.Sh AUTHORS
.An Oleg Ginzburg Aq Mt olevole@olevole.ru
