.Dd July 23, 2016
.Dt cbsd-jlogin 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cbsd jlogin
.Nd Login into local or remote jail as root user.

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm Cm
.Op Cm jname Ns = Ns Ar <jail-name>
.Op Cm remote Ns = Ns Ar 1
.Op Cm inter Ns = Ns Ar <node-name>
.Op Cm src_session Ns = Ns Ar 0
.Op Fl Fl help

.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command performs a login to the jail as root user. If the jail isn't present
on the local node, but rather on one of the remote nodes,
.Nm
will attempt to login over ssh.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm jname Ns = Ns Ar <jail-name>
Login to the specified jail.
.It Cm remote Ns = Ns Ar 1
Prevent searching the jails on remote nodes.
.It Cm inter Ns = Ns Ar <node-name>
Lists jails ......
.It Cm src_sessions Ns = Ns Ar 0
Omits ...
.It Fl Fl help
Show simple usage instructions.
.El
.Pp
If no jail is specified, a list of all known online jails in the farm is
displayed (provided remote hosts were added).
.Pp
If you remotely connect to a jail and node which have tmux installed, tmux
will be launched at login and the session is given the name taken from
the server's nodename (taken from jlogin).
Additional sessions will automatically join the tmux session through a
tmux-attach. When the last connection is closed the tmux session ends
(you may detach via Ctrl + b , d to keep it running).
Should you prefer NOT to use tmux on jlogin, copy ${workdir}/defaults/jlogin.conf
to ${workdir}/etc/jlogin.conf and set tmux_login to 0.
.Pp
In order to deactivate the "try to login?" question when logging into remote
nodes, set always_rlogin to 1 in your ${workdir}/etc/jlogin.conf.

.Sh ENVIRONMENT
By default, CBSD displays text in color (using escape sequences ANSII).
If for some reason the color is unpleasant, or you want to use output from
CBSD utilities in your scripts, you can disable the color through the
environment variable NOCOLOR=1. For example:

.Dl % env NOCOLOR=1 cbsd jls

.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It $workdir/etc/defaults/jlogin.conf
Contains defaults for the
.Nm
command.
.It $workdir/etc/jlogin.conf
Changing the values in this file will override the defaults.
.El

.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std

.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag
.It List jails that can be logged into on the farm and login into one of them:
.Bd -literal
.Nm Cm
0 .. CANCEL
1 .. jail1 on local
2 .. jail2 on local
3 .. jail3 on local
4 .. jail4 on slave
5 .. jail5 on slave
6 .. jail6 on slave

Enter id 0-6 or jail name:
.Ed

.It Login to a jail named jail4, the search is performed on the whole farm:
.Bd -literal
.Nm Cm jname Ns = Ns Ar jail4
Found jail on remote node: slave. Try to login?
[yes(1) or no(0)]
.Ed
.El

.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
To enable debugging via sh xtrace and trace all operations, use --debug
argument after the CBSD command, for example:

.Dl	% env NOCOLOR=1 cbsd jlogin --debug

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cbsd-jconfig 8
.Xr cbsd-jregister 8
.Xr cbsd-jset 8

.Sh AUTHORS
.An Oleg Ginzburg Aq Mt olevole@olevole.ru
